Q.If you had to scale a Spring Boot application to handle high traffic, what strategies would you use?
Q.Imagine Your application requires data from an external REST API to function. Describe how you would use RestTemplate or WebClient to consume the REST API in your Spring Boot application.
Q. Your Spring Boot backend needs to accept cross-origin requests from a specific frontend domain. Explain how you would configure CORS policies in your application.
Q. Your Spring Boot application is experiencing performance issues under high load. What are the steps you would take to identify and address the performance?
Q. Imagine you need to make a simple web application with Spring Boot that serves a static homepage and a dynamic page displaying current server time. Discuss the project structure you would use.
Q.Your application behaves differently in development and production environments. How would you use Spring profiles to manage these differences?
Q.What strategies would you use to optimize the performance of a Spring Boot application?
Q.Describe a scenario where a Spring Boot application needs to dynamically switch between multiple data sources at runtime based on the request context.
Q.Discuss how you would add a GraphQLAPI to an existing Spring Boot RESTful service.
Q.Describe how you would secure sensitive data in a Spring Boot application that is accessed by multiple users with different roles.
Q.In an IoT application scenario, explain how a Spring Boot backend could be designed to efficiently process and analyze real-time data streams from thousands of IoT devices.
Q.Discuss the specific security challenges associated with using WebSocketsin a Spring Boot application.
Q.How would you implement efficient handling of large file uploads in a Spring Boot REST API, ensuring that the system remains responsive and scalable?
Q.How you would use Spring WebFluxto consume data from an external service in a non-blocking manner and process this data reactively within your Spring Boot application.
Q. Imagine you need to develop a REST API in a Spring Boot application that allows clients to manage user data. Explain how you would structure your application.
Q.Imagine you are designing a Spring Boot application that interfaces with multiple external APIs. How would you handle API rate limits and failures?
Q.You need to deploy a Spring Boot application to a cloud platform (e.g., AWS, Azure). What steps would you take, and how would you configure the application properties for different environments.
Q.Explain how you would use application events in Spring Boot to notify different parts of your application about significant activities.
Q.What happens if we use both the @Autowired annotation and the new operator to create a bean of the same type(same class) in a Spring Boot application?
Ans - If you use both the @Autowired annotation and the new operator to create a bean of the same type, then you will end up with two different instances of the bean.
When you use @Autowired, Spring Boot automatically creates and injects an instance of the specified bean into your class, while when you use the new operator, you are creating a new instance of the bean yourself. If you create a new instance of a bean using the new operator, Spring Boot will not manage the bean, which means that it will not be included in any of the dependency injection or autowiring processes that Spring Boot provides.
Q. What happens if both application.properties and application.yml files exist in the classpath? What about bootstrap.properties and bootstrap.yml files?
Ans - If both application.properties and application.yml files exist in the classpath, then the application.yml file will take precedence over the application.properties file. This is because Spring Boot considers YAML files to be more readable and easier to manage than properties files.
Similarly, if both bootstrap.properties and bootstrap.yml files exist in the classpath, then the bootstrap.yml file will take precedence over the bootstrap.properties file. The bootstrap files are loaded before the application files, and they are used to configure external resources and initialize the application context. This means that if you have configuration settings that need to be loaded before the application context is initialized, then you should use bootstrap files.
microservice
advanced-spring-boot
------------------
Q.How would you handle inter-service communication in a micro service architecture using spring boot.
Ans - In a Spring Boot microservice architecture, handle real-time inter-service communication using:
1. WebClient: For non-blocking, reactive HTTP requests.
2. Feign Client: For declarative REST clients.
3. Message Brokers: Such as RabbitMQ or Kafka for asynchronous communication.
4. Service Discovery: Using Eureka or Consul to dynamically find services.
5.Spring Cloud Gateway: For routing and load balancing.
6. Resilience4j: For circuit breaking and resilience patterns.
Q.If your spring boot application is experiencing performance issues at high load. What are the steps you would take to identify and address the issue?
Ans - To identify and address performance issues in a Spring Boot application under high load in real time:
1. Monitor Metrics:
   - Use tools like Prometheus and Grafana with Spring Boot Actuator to monitor CPU, memory, and response times.
2. Analyze Logs:
   - Use ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) to identify error patterns and bottlenecks.
3.Profile the Application:
   - Use VisualVM or JProfiler to detect performance bottlenecks.
4.Optimize Database:
   - Review and optimize slow queries, add indexing, and use caching with Redis or Ehcache.
5. Adjust Thread Pools:
   - Increase thread pool sizes for web server (Tomcat) and async executors.
6. Scale Horizontally:
   - Add more instances of the service to handle increased load.
7. Load Balancing:
   - Implement load balancing to distribute traffic across instances.
By quickly implementing these steps, you can identify and mitigate performance issues in real time.
Q.How would you handle multiple beans of same type?
Ans - To handle multiple beans of the same type in Spring Boot in real time:
1. Use @Qualifier Annotation:
   - Specify which bean to inject.
     ```java
     @Service
     public class MyService {
         private final MyBean myBean;
         @Autowired
         public MyService(@Qualifier("beanName") MyBean myBean) {
             this.myBean = myBean;
         }
     }
     ```
2.Use @Primary Annotation:
   - Mark one bean as the primary bean to be injected by default.
     ```java
     @Bean
     @Primary
     public MyBean primaryBean() {
         return new MyBean();
     }
     ```
3. Inject by Name:
   - Use bean names in the `@Autowired` annotation.
     ```java
     @Autowired
     private MyBean beanName;
These methods ensure the correct bean is injected when multiple beans of the same type exist.
Q.How spring profiles work in spring boot application ? How many profiles you have in your project?**Spring Profiles** in a Spring Boot application allow for environment-specific configurations. Profiles are defined in `application-{profile}.properties` or `application-{profile}.yml` files and activated using the `spring.profiles.active` property.
How They Work:
1. Define profile-specific properties.
2. Activate profiles via properties file, environment variable, or command-line argument.
3. Use the `@Profile` annotation to conditionally load beans.
Number of Profiles:
Typically, a project might have profiles like `dev`, `test`, `prod`, and optionally `staging`, but the exact number depends on project requirements.
Q.How does spring boot decide which server to use ? How to change server if required?
Q.How does Spring Boot handle externalized configuration? What are the ways ?
----------------
Scenario: You have to design a new microservice for a large e-commerce website. How would you go about identifying the boundaries of this microservice?
Scenario: Two microservices need to communicate with each other to complete a business transaction. How would you handle this communication in Java?
Scenario: You are building a microservices-based application, and you need to implement service discovery. How would you do this in Java?
Scenario: A microservice fails to complete a task. How would you handle this failure in Java, and how would you ensure that the task is retried?
Scenario: You are developing a microservice that needs to access sensitive data. How would you ensure that the microservice is secure, and what security protocols would you use in Java?
Scenario: You need to make changes to a microservice, but you don't want to break the existing APIs that other microservices are using. How would you handle versioning in Java?
Scenario: You have multiple instances of a microservice running, and you need to distribute the traffic evenly between them. How would you implement load balancing in Java?
Scenario: Two microservices need to access the same data, and you need to ensure that the data remains consistent. How would you handle this in Java?
Scenario: One microservice needs to send a message to another microservice asynchronously. How would you handle this in Java, and what protocols would you use?
Scenario: You have to deploy a new microservice, and you need to ensure that it can scale easily. How would you handle scaling and deployment in Java?
Q You have a Java web server in production that got stuck: stopped writing logs and doesn’t answer to http requests. How would you investigate?
Logs say OutOfMemoryError - how would you investigate?
Customer clicks on a button and gets NullPointerException, but same case works correctly in development environment. There are no log statements in code that help analyse the problem. How would you investigate and what step would you take to ease debugging such problems in future?
You are investigating an issue and written a JUnit test - it fails as expected. So you start debugger and step over several times, but the issue is not reproduced. Why can this happen?
Your production Java web server typically handles http request in <50ms, but now you see times raised to about 1 second. How would you investigate?
You have multithreaded app which looks properly synchronized, but sometimes it seems that when particular field is read it returns old value. You suspect some synchronization issue, how would you investigate?
